hmm how much did date away several
decades ago how heavy was the very first
portable computer and why on earth our
laptops can separately at the airport
well let's find out the three most
common passwords in 2019 where one two
three four five six one two three four
five six seven eight nine QWERTY
and password oh the creativity as you
may guess these passwords were also the
weakest the world's first commercially
successful video recorder appeared in
1956 it was the size of a piano used to
inch-wide tape and cost an incredible
fifty thousand dollars which would be
around four hundred eighty thousand
dollars nowadays the first computer
mouse was made out of wood
it was rectangular and had a small
button in the top right corner experts
consider osborne one to be the first
true mobile computer it appeared in 1981
and cost $1,800 equivalent to five
thousand four hundred dollars today the
device weighed 25 pounds and had a five
inch wide screen a keyboard was in the
computers live the first internet page
went live on August 6 1991 it was
created by Tim berners-lee and shared
information on the world wide web
project by the way the page is still up
and functioning at the beginning of 2020
the number of bytes in the world was 40
times bigger than the number of stars in
the observable universe and that's at
least one billion trillion people use so
much data these days that a new unit of
information the petabyte appeared one
petabyte can hold 500 billion pages of
printed text or more than 13 years of
HDTV video and 200 petabytes would fit
all printed material that's ever existed
and since we're talking about petabytes
Facebook generates a staggering 4
petabytes of new data every day by the
way don't you think petabytes would be a
good name for doggy cookies
sayin in some countries carrier pigeons
were faster than the internet up to 2009
during an experiment it took 11
month-old pigeon Winston one hour and
eight minutes to deliver a data card to
a destination 50 miles away Internet
data transfer though lasted two hours
and six minutes the first computer was
something similar to a hard drive you
used today appeared in 1956 the machine
weighed almost one time and could use
five megabytes of data spread across 50
massive magnetic disks the computer was
leased for more than $3,000 per month
which would be $29,000 these days if you
want to get rid of the whole word
instead of deleting a single letter set
the cursor after the last letter in the
word and press ctrl + backspace for a
Mac it'll be command + backspace CAPTCHA
a computer program created to tell
humans from BOTS is actually a long
acronym it stands for completely
automated public Turing test to tell
computers and humans apart so they're
good news for all of you emoji fans you
can make an emoji panel appear in the
middle of your computer screen and at
any time just press the Windows key plus
period on windows and command + ctrl +
spacebar on Mac OS in 1993 game boy a
handheld game console produced by
Nintendo went to space an astronaut
brought it to the MIR space station
where the console spent 196 days it
orbited earth more than 3,000 times and
was later sold for 1220 dollars cats
love laptops so much because for one
thing a working device is typically warm
and felines do love it when it's warm
Plus every Kitty figures out sooner or
later that sprawling over the keyboard
is a sure way to attract their favorite
humans attention you betcha the average
person checks their phone every 12
minutes
Google processes three and a half
billion searches a day it adds up to a
mind-blowing 1.2 trillion queries per
year in 2019 Internet users sent 188
million emails per minute it was 7
million more than in 2018 it might be
exasperating to take your laptop out of
your carry-on at the security check
every single time but the airport staff
needs to have a clear look at your
device to make sure nothing is concealed
inside on the screen of an x-ray scanner
a laptop looks like a semi-transparent
object with a clearly visible hard drive
CD drive and whatnot
but security answers can't see what's
behind some of those parts for example a
dense and rather large battery nowadays
people spend more time using their
gadgets than they are sleeping the first
product to be scanned at a supermarket
was a pack of fruity chewing gum it
happened in 1974 you can press the
letter K on your keyboard to pause a
YouTube video M to mute it and J and L
to move 10 seconds forward or backward
hey let's stop pressing L okay credit
card ships have been around since 1986
this technology was first used in France
and then in Germany the QWERTY keyboard
was invented to slow typists down at
that time typewriters used to have their
keys jammed if a person was typing too
fast that's why most commonly used
symbols were spaced out too slow type us
down experts predict that by 2030 90
percent of the world's population at
least six years old will be online in
1993 there was a device that combined in
itself a laptop and a black-and-white
inkjet printer the first so-called smart
phone was named Simon the device had a
touchscreen keyboard several games a
calendar world clock address book and
calculator apps it could be used for
sending faxes and emails the gadget cost
more than $1,000 which would be almost
$2,000 these days a magnet cannot erase
important data from your laptop or wipe
the entire hard drive clean unless it's
a massively powerful one a regular
fridge magnet no way even better your
laptop contains several magnets of its
own in its hard drive and speakers in
2013 experts calculated that up to 90%
of the world's digital data had been
created in the previous two years in
2018 people already generated 2.5
quintillion bytes of data and that's 2.5
with 18 zeros every day using a font
with thinner lines will help you see if
printer ink but if you're a standard
user it won't make a lot of difference
just about 10 percent 5g technology
might increase data transmission speed
by 10 to 100 times if it works out
you'll be able to download an entire
season of your fav TV series in under a
minute
even though GPS is a free service it
costs more than 700 million dollars per
year to operate in 2019 almost 350,000
users were scrolling Instagram every
minute that's the entire population of
Hawaii's largest city on a loo-loo
contrary to popular belief overcharging
your laptop won't turn it into a desktop
computer unable to function without
being plugged in minor batteries are
created to stop charging once they're
full overcharging isn't an issue about
40% of adults check their gadgets in the
first 5 minutes after they wake up after
doing some online shopping in a mobile
app or a web browser more than 40% of
Internet users open either another
shopping application or a communication
app it means they either continue their
shopping spree or hurry to inform their
friends about their purchases and so it
goes